new blog post: LayoutNG (#950)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/layoutNG/index.md

---

> title: LayoutNG

Author: excellent catch. added in a commit.

subhead: |
  A new layout engine for Chromium
date: 2019-05-29
hero: mariko-layout.png
alt: hand sketched diagram of Chrome's paint and render pipeline
description: |
  LayoutNG is a new layout engine for Chromium that has been designed for the needs of modern scalable web applications. It provides improved performance isolation, better support for scripts other than Latin, fixes many issues around floats/margins and a large number of web compatibility issues.
tags:
  - post
  - layout
---

> <style>

Author: we could sure, glad you saw this work too. i played around a bit with alignment and i bet anyone using a mixin would want options. so yep, let's chat. my css there isn't complete either, doesn't fall back to flexbox as well as the grid layout works and also the grid layout is naturally responsive and a flexbox solution will need a media query. (worth noting that i made sure mobile layout looked good)

  .w-figures-2-up {
    display: flex;
    justify-content: space-around;
    align-items: flex-start;
    display: grid;
    gap: 1rem;
    grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(20ch, 1fr));
  }
</style>

> Scheduled to be released in Chrome 76, LayoutNG is a new layout engine exiting a multi-year effort. While this article intends to cover the list of immediate effects, longer term goals exist which intend to bring additional performance gains and advanced layout features.

Reviewer: +1 for context setting

> Scheduled to be released in Chrome 76, LayoutNG is a new layout engine exiting a multi-year effort. While this article intends to cover the list of immediate effects, longer term goals exist which intend to bring additional performance gains and advanced layout features.

Author: 🤷‍♂ i dont have strong opinions here

> Scheduled to be released in Chrome 76, LayoutNG is a new layout engine exiting a multi-year effort. While this article intends to cover the list of immediate effects, longer term goals exist which intend to bring additional performance gains and advanced layout features.

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest doing the context setting if possible. I think the original post is written for an audience that works on Chromium itself who maybe do need that setup but when I initially read the post it sorta felt like it was jumping ahead in this first paragraph.

> #### What's New?

Author: excellent suggestion, commit made that resolves

1. Provides **improved performance** isolation
1. **Better support** for scripts other than Latin
1. **Fixes** many issues around floats and margins
1. **Fixes** a large number of web compatibility issues

{% Aside %}
  Please note that LayoutNG will be **launched in stages**. In Chrome 76, LayoutNG is used for inline and block layout. Other layout primitives (such as table, flexbox, grid, and block fragmentation) will be replaced in subsequent releases.
{% endAside %}

> <br>

Author: i'm def down to chat rhythm, i dont think it has issues, but maybe we provide a primitive or 2 for spacing control? 

i use them to break up the wall of text into sections. i try to keep a rhyme and reason to my header and spacing, but i'm not sure i have a "system" in mind. my initial hunches are things like `<h2>`'s could have extra of margin top if following a paragraph. but i'm unsure if everyone will want that, and furthermore, that's the type of css choice that would make all my `<br>`'s really annoying. so i dunno who should own the space, the author or the platform. 🤷‍♂

> <br>

Author: yeah, i'd like to lean on your expertise and product ownership as well!

i do feel that the desire to not have a "wall of text" (which is great!) is quickly lost with the current rhythm. there's not enough white space to break the wall up. but if you dont feel that, then we can stick with what we have. 

regardless, sounds like i'm removing `<br>`'s 👍

## Developer Visible Changes
Although the user visible impact should be minimal, LayoutNG changes some behavior in very subtle ways, fixes hundreds of tests, and improves compatibility with other browsers. Despite our best efforts, it is likely that this will cause some sites and applications to render or behave slightly differently.

The performance characteristics are also quite different; although performance on a whole is similar or slightly better than before, certain use cases are likely to see performance improvements, while others are expected to regress somewhat, at least short-term.

<br>

### Floats
LayoutNG reimplements support for floating elements (`float: left;` and `float: right;`) fixing a number of correctness issues around placement of floats in relation to other content.

#### Superimposed Content

> The legacy float implementation didn’t correctly account for margins when placing content around a floating element, resulting in the content partially or fully overlapping the float itself. The most common manifestation of this bug is when positioning images besides paragraphs of text where the avoidance logic fails to account for the height of a line ([#861540](https://crbug.com/861540)).

Author: you're just simply suggesting to click the link, grab the title, and drop it into the link text of the post, for context and accessibility? makes sense to me. for the future though, might be nice to create a link mixin for authors to have the ability for manual link text for screenreaders? have the cake and eat it too.

<div class="w-figures-2-up">
  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">

>     <img loading="lazy" src="legacy_float_margin.png" alt="top text line shown overlaying floated image">

Author: great suggestion

<br>

### RTL & Writing Modes
LayoutNG was designed from the ground up to support vertical writing modes and bi-directional content. This fixes numerous issues around both writing modes, right-to-left inlines, and orthogonal flows.

#### Bidirectional Text
LayoutNG supports the most up-to-date Unicode bidirectional algorithm defined by [The Unicode Standard](https://unicode.org/standard/standard.html). Not only does it fix various cases where rendering was not correct, it also includes missing features in the old engine such as paired bracket support ([#302469](https://crbug.com/302469)).

#### Orthogonal Flows
LayoutNG improves vertical flow layout correctness, for more correct positioning of absolute positioned objects, sizing of orthogonal flow boxes especially when percent is used, and so forth. Among the 1,258 tests in W3C test suites, **103 tests that failed in the old engine pass in LayoutNG.**

#### Intrinsic Sizing
Intrinsic sizes are now calculated correctly when a LayoutNG block contains children in an orthogonal writing mode.

<br>

### Text Layout & Line Breaking

> The old layout engine in Chromium does text layout element by element and line by line. This has historically worked well but requires a lot of extra complexity to support complex scripts and to get good performance. It's also prone to inconsistencies in measurements which tend to manifest themselves as subtle differences in sizing of size-to-content containers and their content or unnecessary line breaks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The old layout engine in Chromium does text layout element-by-element and line-by-line. This has historically worked well but requires a lot of extra complexity to support scripts and to achieve good performance. It's also prone to inconsistencies in measurements which tend to manifest themselves as subtle differences in sizing of size-to-content containers and their content or unnecessary line breaks.
```

In LayoutNG, text layout is done on a paragraph level and is then split into lines. This allows for better performance, higher quality text rendering, and more consistent line breaking. The most notable differences here from a developer and user standpoint are detailed below.

#### Joining across Element Boundaries

> In some scripts graphemes join with adjacent ones and changes presentation. In LayoutNG this works even if the graphemes are in different elements, allowing the joins to be preserved even if different styling is applied ([#6122](https://crbug.com/6122)).

Reviewer 2: maybe link to what a grapheme is? Or you can use the `key-term` aside to explain what the term means. It was new to me :D

Author: gooooooood call! dude, lovin your review suggestions. will add 👍

    </figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

#### CJK Ligatures
Although Chromium already supports ligatures and enable them by default, there are some limitations. Ligatures involving multiple CJK codepoints are not supported in the legacy engine due to a rendering optimization. LayoutNG removes these restrictions and supports ligatures regardless of script.

The example below shows the rendering of three discretionary ligatures using the Adobe SourceHanSansJP font:

<div class="w-figures-2-up">
  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="legacy_dlig_jp.png" alt="middle character combination not forming ligature">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 4a, Legacy layout</small><br>
      MHz correctly forms a ligature<br>
      but マンション and 10点 does not
    </figcaption>
  </figure>

  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="ng_dlig_jp.png" alt="proper ligatures shown">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 4b, LayoutNG</small><br>
      All three groups form ligatures as expected
    </figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

#### Size to Content

> For elements that size to content (such as inline blocks) the current layout engine computes the size of the block first and then performs layout on the content. In some cases, such as when a font kerns aggressively, this may result in a mismatch between the size of the content and the block. In LayoutNG this failure mode has been eliminated as the block is sized based on the actual content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For elements that size-to-content (such as inline blocks) the current layout engine computes the size of the block first and then performs layout on the content. In some cases, such as when a font kerns aggressively, this may result in a mismatch between the size of the content and the block. In LayoutNG this failure mode has been eliminated as the block is sized based on the actual content.
```

      <small>Fig 5b, LayoutNG</small><br>
      Note how the left and right edges of the box match the bounds of the text
    </figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

#### Line Wrapping
Similar to the problem described above, if the content of a size-to-content block is larger (wider) than the block, this can cause the content to wrap unnecessarily. This is quite rare but sometimes happens for mixed directionality content.

<div class="w-figures-2-up">
  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="legacy_ar_wrap.png" alt="premature line break shown causing extra space">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 6a, Legacy layout</small><br>
      Note the unnecessary line break and extra space on the right
    </figcaption>
  </figure>

  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="ng_ar_wrap.png" alt="no unnecessary space or line breaks shown">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 6b, LayoutNG</small><br>
      Note how the left and right edges of the box match the bounds of the text
    </figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

<br>

## Further Information

> - [Documentation](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/third_party/blink/renderer/core/layout/ng/README.md)

Reviewer 2: Maybe LayoutNG README would be a better link name? I don't know why but 'Documentation' seemed a bit ambiguous to me.

Author: I have no strong opinions, I ported it as authored. @addyosmani wanna give 2 cents?

Author: updating per request, closing out

> - [Design Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uxbDh4uONFQOiGuiumlJBLGgO4KDWB8ZEkp7Rd47fw4/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Layout NG design document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uxbDh4uONFQOiGuiumlJBLGgO4KDWB8ZEkp7Rd47fw4/)
```

---

> title: LayoutNG

Author: i think this makes sense, but what should the subhead become?

subhead: |

>   A new layout engine for Chromium

Author: yeah, overpromising a bit. the fact it's a new layout engine is plenty of excitement imo

>   A new layout engine for Chromium

Reviewer: OK, do you have suggestions for an alternative subhead?

authors:
  - eae
date: 2019-05-29
hero: hero.jpg

> alt: hand sketched diagram of Chrome's paint and render pipeline

Author: excellent attention to detail! i swapped images but forgot to update alt text. thanks!

description: |

>   LayoutNG is a new layout engine for Chromium that has been designed for the needs of modern scalable web applications. It provides improved performance isolation, better support for scripts other than Latin, fixes many issues around floats/margins and a large number of web compatibility issues.

Author: thanks! i struggled with that sentence, i agree it was smelly

tags:
  - post
  - layout
---

<style>
  .w-figures-2-up {
    display: flex;
    justify-content: space-around;
    align-items: flex-start;
    display: grid;
    gap: 1rem;
    grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(20ch, 1fr));
  }
</style>

Scheduled to be released in Chrome 76, LayoutNG is a new layout engine exiting a multi-year effort. While this article intends to cover the list of immediate effects, longer term goals exist which intend to bring additional performance gains and advanced layout features.

> <h2 class="w-headline--four">What's New?</h2>

Reviewer: I've proposed promoting those to h3 by removing the "Developer visible changes" h2, as noted below. But either way, I guess I'd be in favor of retaining the default styling of heads because they convey the IA of the post. (In this case, "What's new?" is a separate top-level section from what comes after.) But I'll defer to you :)

1. Provides **improved performance** isolation
1. **Better support** for scripts other than Latin
1. **Fixes** many issues around floats and margins
1. **Fixes** a large number of web compatibility issues

{% Aside %}
  Please note that LayoutNG will be **launched in stages**. In Chrome 76, LayoutNG is used for inline and block layout. Other layout primitives (such as table, flexbox, grid, and block fragmentation) will be replaced in subsequent releases.
{% endAside %}

<br>

> ## Developer visible changes

Reviewer: My thinking was that since there's only one h2, it's not really helping structure the text--and it's causing a bunch of h4s, which contribute to the wall-of-text look since they have less whitespace around them. Removing it would allow everything to be bumped up a hierarchy level.

Although the user visible impact should be minimal, LayoutNG changes some behavior in very subtle ways, fixes hundreds of tests, and improves compatibility with other browsers. Despite our best efforts, it is likely that this will cause some sites and applications to render or behave slightly differently.

The performance characteristics are also quite different; although performance on a whole is similar or slightly better than before, certain use cases are likely to see performance improvements, while others are expected to regress somewhat, at least short-term.

<br>

> ### Floats

Author: i do think it was intentional this was an h3. reasoning for the promotion to h2?

> ### Floats

Reviewer: See above. By removing the "Developer visible changes" h2 (the only h2 in the main body of the piece), we can promote all subheads.

LayoutNG reimplements support for floating elements (`float: left;` and `float: right;`) fixing a number of correctness issues around placement of floats in relation to other content.

> #### Superimposed Content

Author: i feel this is still proper, just as the floats header was an h3, this is under that topic as an h4. reasoning for suggestion? i'm open to changes.

> #### Superimposed Content

Reviewer: See above. These are all subheads under "Developer visible changes." If you remove that head, all sub-heads get promoted.

> The legacy float implementation didn’t correctly account for margins when placing content around a floating element, resulting in the content partially or fully overlapping the float itself. The most common manifestation of this bug is when positioning images besides paragraphs of text where the avoidance logic fails to account for the height of a line ([#861540](https://crbug.com/861540)).

Author: nice 👍

<div class="w-figures-2-up">
  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">

>     <img class="w-screenshot" loading="lazy" src="legacy_float_margin.png" alt="top text line shown overlaying floated image">

Author: hm, i think i need this unpacked a little. request is for images demonstrating the problem better?

>     <img class="w-screenshot" loading="lazy" src="legacy_float_margin.png" alt="top text line shown overlaying floated image">

Reviewer: Yes, right! I was thinking that if you could actually _see_ the margins rather than just having them described in text, that'd be helpful.

    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 1b, LayoutNG</small><br>
      Text is positioned beside the floating image to the right
    </figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

The same problem may occur within a single line. The example below shows a block element with a negative margin following a floating element ([#895962](https://crbug.com/895962)). The text should not overlap with the float.

<div class="w-figures-2-up">
  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="legacy_float_overlap.png" alt="text line shown overlaying an orange box">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 2a, Legacy Layout</small><br>
      Text overlaps the floating orange element
    </figcaption>
  </figure>

  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="ng_float_overlap.png" alt="proper text on right of orange box">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 2b, LayoutNG</small><br>
      Text is positioned beside the floating orange element
    </figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

> #### Formatting Context Positioning

Author: kinda dev speak yeah, but will resonate with the audience perhaps?

> #### Formatting Context Positioning

Reviewer: My concern wasn't so much the technical terms as the potential for grammatical ambiguity. You have a present progressive participle followed by gerund. It took a second (for me, anyway) to parse the phrase. But not a big deal.  Can disregard.

- **Multi-line Inline Containing Blocks** <br>If an abspos containing block spanned multiple lines, the legacy engine might incorrectly use only a subset of the lines to compute the containing block bounds.
- **Writing Modes** <br>The legacy engine had many problems placing out of flow elements to default position in vertical writing modes. See the next section for more details around improved writing mode support.

<br>

### RTL & Writing Modes
LayoutNG was designed from the ground up to support vertical writing modes and bi-directional content. This fixes numerous issues around both writing modes, right-to-left inlines, and orthogonal flows.

#### Bidirectional Text
LayoutNG supports the most up-to-date Unicode bidirectional algorithm defined by [The Unicode Standard](https://unicode.org/standard/standard.html). Not only does it fix various cases where rendering was not correct, it also includes missing features in the old engine such as paired bracket support ([#302469](https://crbug.com/302469)).

> #### Orthogonal Flows

Author: good call, perhaps another place for a keyterm aside?

> #### Orthogonal Flows

Reviewer: I think that might be helpful, FWIW, though happy to hear what @robdodson thinks since he has a better sense of the audience.

LayoutNG improves vertical flow layout correctness, for more correct positioning of absolute positioned objects, sizing of orthogonal flow boxes especially when percent is used, and so forth. Among the 1,258 tests in W3C test suites, **103 tests that failed in the old engine pass in LayoutNG.**

#### Intrinsic Sizing

> Intrinsic sizes are now calculated correctly when a LayoutNG block contains children in an orthogonal writing mode.

Author: was just thinking that too, yes, i think we should

<br>

> ### Text Layout & Line Breaking

Author: i dont think we're capitalizing like this. @robdodson can you confirm or correct us to the pattern you're going with please?

> ### Text Layout & Line Breaking

Reviewer: Per the wiki, we use sentence case for titles and headings: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/wiki/Writing-style#style-and-usage

> The old layout engine in Chromium does text layout element-by-element and line-by-line. This has historically worked well but requires a lot of extra complexity to support scripts and to achieve good performance. It's also prone to inconsistencies in measurements which tend to manifest themselves as subtle differences in sizing of size-to-content containers and their content or unnecessary line breaks.

Author: i dont think we're going to get any support for additional or clarifying screenshots unfortunately. i agree this post could use many more though.

In LayoutNG, text layout is done on a paragraph level and is then split into lines. This allows for better performance, higher quality text rendering, and more consistent line breaking. The most notable differences here from a developer and user standpoint are detailed below.

#### Joining across Element Boundaries
In some scripts graphemes join with adjacent ones and changes presentation. In LayoutNG this works even if the graphemes are in different elements, allowing the joins to be preserved even if different styling is applied ([#6122](https://crbug.com/6122)).

{% Aside 'key-term' %}

>   a grapheme is the smallest unit of a writing system of any given language

Author: lovely addition, agreed it needed elaborated 👍

{% endAside %}

> The example below shows the rendering of the following HTML in legacy layout and LayoutNG respectively:

Author: i'll take a peak at that tomorrow 👍

```html
<div>&#1606;&#1587;&#1602;</div>
<div>&#1606;&#1587;<span>&#1602;</span></div>
```

<div class="w-figures-2-up">
  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="legacy_shape.png" alt="proper grapheme on left and separated improper rendering on right">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 3a, Legacy Layout</small><br>

>       Note how the form of the second letter changes

Author: i think i kept this short intentionally so it laid out better as a caption. i'll review tomorrow 👍

>       Note how the form of the second letter changes

Reviewer: OK, I hear that. My version is definitely longer. I was going for precision: "changes" sounds (to me) like these are two steps in a sequence rather than two different pieces of code. And I wanted to get the idea that the difference is incorrect.  Basically, if folks are skimming, I wanted the figure to stand on its own as well as it could. But not a big deal, so feel free to disregard.

    </figcaption>
  </figure>

  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="ng_shape.png" alt="proper combined graphemes shown">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 3b, LayoutNG</small><br>
      Note they're now identical
    </figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

#### CJK Ligatures

> Although Chromium already supports ligatures and enable them by default, there are some limitations. Ligatures involving multiple CJK codepoints are not supported in the legacy engine due to a rendering optimization. LayoutNG removes these restrictions and supports ligatures regardless of script.

Author: good suggestions, can do tomorrow!

> The example below shows the rendering of three discretionary ligatures using the Adobe SourceHanSansJP font:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below shows the rendering of three discretionary ligatures using the Adobe SourceHanSansJP font:
```
Define "discretionary"? Or omit if possible? (I'm mindful of how the jargon related to text rendering is building up in this section...)

Author: hm, no opinions here. good question for original author maybe?

<div class="w-figures-2-up">
  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="legacy_dlig_jp.png" alt="middle character combination not forming ligature">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">

>       <small>Fig 4a, Legacy layout</small><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <small>Fig 4a, Legacy layout engine</small><br>
```

      MHz correctly forms a ligature<br>

>       but マンション and 10点 does not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      but マンション and 10点 do not
```

    </figcaption>
  </figure>

  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="ng_dlig_jp.png" alt="proper ligatures shown">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 4b, LayoutNG</small><br>
      All three groups form ligatures as expected
    </figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

#### Size to Content

> For elements that size-to-content (such as inline blocks) the current layout engine computes the size of the block first and then performs layout on the content. In some cases, such as when a font kerns aggressively, this may result in a mismatch between the size of the content and the block. In LayoutNG this failure mode has been eliminated as the block is sized based on the actual content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For elements that size to content (such as inline blocks), the legacy layout engine computes the size of the block first and then lays out the content. In some cases, such as when a font has tight kerning, this may result in a mismatch between the size of the content and the block. In LayoutNG this failure has been eliminated by basing the block size on the actual content.
```
I thought "tight kerning" might be more recognizable than "aggressively kerned," assuming that's what was meant. Also, do we need to define "kerning"?

Author: hm, lemme think about this one and review again tomorrow
i dont think kerning needs defined (but i could be corrected)
i assume aggressive kerning was a purposeful choice, while i agree tight kerning is the general nomenclature

Reviewer: I don't have strong opinions either. I'll defer to you about our audience's background knowledge.

> The example below shows a yellow block sized to content. It uses the Lato font which uses kerning to adjust the spacing between T and -. The bounds of the yellow box should match the bounds of the text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below shows a yellow block sized to its content. The block is set in the Lato font which uses kerning to reduce the space between the _T_ and _-_ characters. The bounds of the yellow box should match the bounds of the text.
```

<div class="w-figures-2-up">
  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="kern_legacy.png" alt="trailing whitespace shown at the end of the text container">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">

>       <small>Fig 5a, Legacy Layout</small><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <small>Fig 5a, Legacy layout engine</small><br>
```

>       Note the trailing whitespace after the last T

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Note the trailing whitespace after the last _T_
```

    </figcaption>
  </figure>

  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="kern-ng.png" alt="text bounds have no extra space">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 5b, LayoutNG</small><br>
      Note how the left and right edges of the box match the bounds of the text
    </figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

#### Line Wrapping

> Similar to the problem described above, if the content of a size-to-content block is larger (wider) than the block, this can cause the content to wrap unnecessarily. This is quite rare but sometimes happens for mixed directionality content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to the problem described above, if the content of a size-to-content block is larger (wider) than the block, content can sometimes wrap unnecessarily. This is quite rare but sometimes happens for mixed directionality content.
```

<div class="w-figures-2-up">
  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="legacy_ar_wrap.png" alt="premature line break shown causing extra space">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">

>       <small>Fig 6a, Legacy layout</small><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <small>Fig 6a, Legacy layout engine</small><br>
```

Author: if we change this here we should change it everywhere no?

Author: looks like you did and i was too quick to comment. thanks!

      Note the unnecessary line break and extra space on the right
    </figcaption>
  </figure>

  <figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
    <img loading="lazy" src="ng_ar_wrap.png" alt="no unnecessary space or line breaks shown">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--center">
      <small>Fig 6b, LayoutNG</small><br>
      Note how the left and right edges of the box match the bounds of the text
    </figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

<br>

## Further Information
- [Documentation](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/third_party/blink/renderer/core/layout/ng/README.md)
- [Layout NG design document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uxbDh4uONFQOiGuiumlJBLGgO4KDWB8ZEkp7Rd47fw4/)
- [Master tracking bug](https://crbug.com/591099)

For more detailed information about the specific compatibility issues and bugs fixed by LayoutNG, please see the issues linked above or search the Chromium bug database for bugs marked [Fixed-In-LayoutNG](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/list?can=1&q=label%3AFixed-In-LayoutNG).

> {% Aside 'warning' %}

Reviewer: Is a warning the right kind of aside for this? Don't we usually use this to alert readers when some detail will break their code if they don't pay attention to it? Should this be an aside at all?

Author: great question, @robdodson have opinions?

my goal was to give visual support for the message (which is a warning), because it's honest, transparent and important to note.

>   If you suspect that LayoutNG may have caused a web site to break, please [file a bug report](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/entry?summary=%5BLayoutNG%5D+Enter+one-line+summary&labels=LayoutNG&components=Blink%3ELayout) and we'll investigate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you suspect that LayoutNG may have caused a website to break, please [file a bug report](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/entry?summary=%5BLayoutNG%5D+Enter+one-line+summary&labels=LayoutNG&components=Blink%3ELayout), and we'll investigate.
```
